## Overview

Twitter is a popular microblogging service in recent years. About 200 million tweets are generated per day. Each user has a provision to share information with their friends or public in the form of text messages up to 140 characters, which are popularly known as tweets. A substantial amount of data is being generated by spam or fake users.There is also retweet mechanism that allows users to share information with their followers which inturn spreads the information rapidly. Often a popular user is followed by a large number of other users. This creates a massive celebrity-centric social network ,which plays a major role in breaking news, controversial opinions on issues and latest events.Such accounts must be given importance to understand this spread of information and how the users are influenced.This helps in profiling their followers’ behaviors. Therefore ,on analyzing when and what the followers comment on tweets of these influential users we can discover differential temporal patterns and word diversity in comments.This helps in classifying the followers as spammers and normal.

## Data

Data is collected actively from a list of influential users on Twitter. We make use of the Twitter API’s ‘statuses/user_timeline’ endpoint to fetch the timeline statuses of each user in our list cautious of the rate limits imposed by twitter. Further, we fetch the replies to each of these statuses. Since we do not have a direct endpoint to do this, we follow a set of steps as described below:
Collect @username and id of the status we need replies for.
Use the search API with query parameters containing ‘to:@username’
Return tweets that match the field ‘id_reply_to_status_id’ to ‘id’
This data is then processed by trimming out trivial words, symbols or emotion icons. Further we plan on processing even the status content for further analysis.

One difficulty we might face is fetching all the replies since there is no direct API.

## Method

Our approach deals with classifying the followers into spammers and normal users. We consider a follower of influential users as a spammer, if the follower posts advertisement information or phishing messages when commenting on the tweets from influential users.
The method that we are using involves tf-idf technique which is a widely used statistical measure for analyzing the frequency and diversity of individual words in tweets. This process involves getting occurrence of every word in a tweet. We consider all the comments from a follower f on a given tweet, and use tf-idf to analyze the words in the comments from a single follower on the same tweet posted by an influential user and we further compute standard deviation (to check variation from normal comments) on every tf-idf values of the words to determine how frequently the word is used in a comment  by a follower and how it can be categorized as a spam. The libraries that we plan to use are sklearn, nltk, numpy, twitterAPI.


## Related Work

[1] Detection of spam-posting accounts on Twitter, Isa Inuwa-Dutse, Mark Liptrott, Ioannis Korkontzelos
[2] Detecting Social Spam Campaigns on Twitter,Zi Chu, Indra Widjaja, and Haining Wang
[3] Information assurance:detection of web spam attacks in social media,Pang-Ning Tan, Feilong Chen, and Anil K Jain
[4] Identifying Twitter Spam by Utilizing Random Forests,Humza S. Haider
[5] Spam Detection on Twitter Using Traditional Classifiers,M. McCord and M. Chuah


## Evaluation

To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, we manually examine the types of followers by visiting their profile pages and historical tweets, retweets, and comments on twitter, and determine whether each follower is a spammer or a normal user. Due to the limitation of the manual process, we randomly select one thousand accounts from millions of followers of these influential users. This set of randomly selected followers provides ground truth data for our experimental evaluation, and quantifies the accuracy of our proposed technique for classifying the followers of influential users.




